h1. Rating Stars

p. Rating stars is a javascript library to easily allow you to having a rating widget (or many rating widgets) on a page, and submit that rating back to a server via Ajax.

h3. Prerequisites

* prototype.js
* lowpro.js

h3. Installation

p. There is one javascript file (rating_stars.js) and three images that comprise the widget. Just put the .js file and the image files in a place publicly accessible in your application.

h3. Usage

p. In the simplest case, all you need is a div to place the widget and a url to submit the rating to.

<pre>
  <div id="widget"></div>
  
  <script type="text/javascript">
    new RatingStars.Widget({
      'holder': 'widget',
      'url': '/url/for/submission'
    });
  </script>
</pre>

p. If you want to go the lowpro, unobtrusive route, a behavior is provided that allows you to add a class of 'rating' to a div in order for it to turn into a widget.

<pre>
  <div class="rating" href="/url/for/submission" initial_message="Leave some feedback"></div>
  
  is equivalent to
  
  <div id="widget"></div>
  
  <script type="text/javascript">
    new RatingStars.Widget({
      'holder': 'widget',
      'url': '/url/for/submission',
      'initialMessage': 'Leave some feedback'
    });
  </script>
</pre>

p. Listed below are all the options that can be passed in to customize the widget:

* *holder*: The div that contains the rating widget, either as an id (string) or as a prototype extended element ($(id)). _Must be provided_.
* *url*: The url to submit the rating to via Ajax. _Must be provided_.
* *initialMessage*: The message that first appears when the widget is instantiated. Defaults to 'Click to submit'.
* *submittedMessage*: The message that appears when the widget is submitted. This assumes that when you submit that no text comes back from the Ajax response. Defaults to 'Thanks for voting!'.
* *readOnly*: Specifies whether the widget can be submitted or not. Useful in tandem with the 'rating' option. Defaults to false.
* *rating*: The initial rating shown on the widget. Useful in tandem with the 'readOnly' option. Defaults to 0. Possible values: 0 - 100.
* *parameters*: Any additional parameters that you wish to be submitted on the Ajax submission (think authenticity_token for Rails). Defaults to {}.

p. Below are the attributes that can be put onto a div with class 'rating' for the lowpro behavior:

* *href*: Translates to the _url_ option passed to the widget.
* *initial_message*: Translates into the _initialMessage_ option passed to the widget.
* *submitted_message*: Translates into the _submittedMessage_ option passed to the widget.
* *read_only*: Translates into the _readOnly_ option passed to the widget.
* *rating*: The _rating_ option passed to the widget.
* *parameters*: A string in the format of _key,value/key,value_ that will be passed to the widget as the parameters option in the form of a hash.

h3. Credits

p. Written by "Steve Iannopollo":http://iannopollo.com. It can be obtained on "github":http://github.com/siannopollo/rating_stars.

p. Rating Stars is released under the MIT-License and is Copyright (c) 2009 Steve Iannopollo.